The PeaceCorps in just this year's winter hackathon had listed dozens
challenges submitted by volunteers working in the field from Costa Rica, to
Mongolia. These challenges were listed at
http://innovationchallenge.peacecorps.gov, and were submitted as part of the
Random Hacks of Kindness Global Hackathon.

As the lead organizer of the Rochester Hackathon event, I had the privilege of
working with Peace Corps Volunteers (PCVs) and Returned Peace Corps Volunteers
(RPCVs) to match our hackahton attendees with challenges submitted from the
field in Africa, and elsewhere.

The PeaceCorps was not the only governmental organization in need, and we
didn't have to look halfway around the world for folks who needed help. Our
hackathon was not even a month after Hurricane Sandy had ravaged the east
coast. Residents in Down State New York were devastated, and are still
struggling to get back on their feet, even as I write this proposal. Through
attending another Hackathon at CapitolCamp2012 in Albany, we met with
developers from Governor Cuomo's office, the New York State Senate, and many
other agencies. These civil servants had been tirelessly monitoring social
media channels, and updating the state websites with the latest aid and relief
information for those affected by the storm. In that hackathon began an effort
to develop a storm resources website that was optimized for mobile browsers,
that would become the largest and most active project at RHoK Rochester.

Not all of our projects were reactive, disaster or crisis related. Some were
proactive informative sites that improved civic engagement here in Monroe
County. One member of the community took it upon himself to categorize and
index all of the meeting minutes from each town hall and city council meeting,
and provide links to the source documents.

